Ah. I love a good junkyard.
[grunts] We'll definitely find
a spare compressor here.
Among other things.
[chuckles] You got that right.
[grunts]
Yes!
Well, got the compressor.
You find anything good?
Check it out.
Ooh. [chuckles] Yeah.
Suddenly, I felt its tentacles
wrap around my legs,
-pulling me down into the depths.
-[both gasp]
I had no choice
but to fend off the Octomorph.
-Bare-handed.
-[Bolo, Ketch gasp]
This story changes
every time she tells it.
Vanquishing the creature,
I swam to the coral cave.
And do you know what I found?
What'd you find?
-What? What was there?
-Spit it out!
Only the Grand Pearl of Novak.
[both] Whoa! [chuckling]
Those two will believe anything.
[chuckles] Mission accomplished!
One compressor, as requested. [chuckles]
Ah. Nicely done, Wrecker.
[Omega] That's not all we got.
This assortment, however,
could have been left at the junkyard.
Easy, quick draw.
Let the expert take a look.
It is a manifold regulator.
And a broken one at that.
[Phee] Thanks, Clone Obvious.
Hang on.
These look like coordinate markings.
[gasps] Coordinate markings?
-Mel, take a look at this.
-[beeping]
[beeps]
I was right. This is a compass.
One from long before our time.
[beeping]
These coordinates are
in the Kaldar Trinary system.
[datapad beeps]
I have no record of that system.
Because the best treasures
usually aren't found on maps.
There's treasure there?
Without a doubt.
This compass is a rare find.
You've got a good eye.
Let's go check it out. You heard Phee.
She says a lot of things.
I can go alone
and take the spoils for myself.
Or we go together and split it 50-50.
Please, Hunter.
What if there really is treasure there?
Yeah. We're not on a mission.
It could be fun.
The last time we went after treasure,
it didn't go as planned.
You weren't working
with a professional then.
[Mel beeps]
What do you say?
[sighs]
How many uncharted planets
have you been to?
Too many to count.
That's why I need Mel
to keep track of all the legends
-I've chased down over the years.
-[Mel beeps]
That's the life of a treasure hunter.
Don't you mean "pirate"?
I prefer "Liberator of Ancient Wonders."
Wanna hear about the time
I found the Blade of Zakata Par?
Yes, I do!
-[Phee] It's an exciting story…
-[sighs]
[Phee] …so strap in.
[datapad beeping]
[Tech] I'm not picking up
any signs of civilization whatsoever.
Which makes sense,
considering this land appears
to have been razed and left uninhabitable.
Who'd wanna hide treasure here?
[compass beeping]
What was that?
The compass just activated.
[beeping continues]
[beeping faster]
It's telling us to go south.
Let's go!
Now she's got the right attitude.
Wait up, kid!
[compass beeping]
[beeping faster]
[Mel beeps]
[beeping stops]
[grunts] It's a dead end.
Maybe we go around the mountain?
Or it's telling us to go inside it.
[wind blowing]
Big guy, help me move this.
[grunting]
[rumbling]
[rocks falling]
Look! It's a secret entrance.
[Wrecker] Oh! It is a secret entrance.
[creature growling]
Whoa!
[datapad beeping]
Hunter, these etchings
are easily a thousand years old.
Older. Much older.
If I'm right, which is always,
we are standing in the entranceway
to Skara Nal.
[Echo] To what?
Every pirate out there's heard
the legend of Skara Nal.
It traces back to the ancients.
[Echo] You mean the Jedi?
No. Older.
So, what kinda treasure's in there?
The Heart of the Mountain.
And we're going to liberate it.
How do we get in?
It's a pattern.
We need to align the symbols
in the right order.
[stone grinding]
Some help would be nice.
[rumbling]
[Hunter] That doesn't sound good.
[rumbling continues]
[Wrecker grunts]
-[rumbling stops]
-[Wrecker coughs, groans]
Booby traps. Now it's getting interesting.
You've just trapped us in here.
Relax. There's always a way out.
We just have to find it.
It's part of the puzzle.
[gasps] Wait!
We're aligning the wrong symbols!
[Hunter] What do you see?
Some of the symbols are glowing.
Here. Lay the compass on my lantern.
[Wrecker] Whoa!
[stone grinding]
[grinding stops]
-Mel, note the coordinates and wait here.
-[beeps]
Come on, kid. Time to go exploring.
Looks like we're doing this. [chuckles]
[Tech] My interest is certainly piqued.
[beeping]
So, what exactly is
the Heart of the Mountain?
A rare crystalline stone.
Some say it's the key to an ancient power,
which makes it worth more
than you could possibly fathom.
[Tech] I have run a preliminary analysis
of the minerals in those stone slabs.
They predate the Republic.
Phee may be onto something.
Hey, tough guys. Want to pick up the pace?
Hunter?
[creature growls]
[roars]
[gasps]
It's drooling on me!
[creature growls]
[creature screeches]
[rumbling]
[Omega coughing]
-Echo, Tech, Wrecker, are you okay?
-[Wrecker groaning]
[Echo] We're fine,
but there's too much debris.
We can't get through.
[Tech] The readings in here are not
as clear, but I can track your position.
There are smaller side tunnels throughout.
We will navigate a path
and rendezvous with you at the other end.
Good.
Then we'll keep looking for the treasure.
What? That's what we're here for.
They'll be fine. Come on.
Fortune awaits.
[creature growling in distance]
[Hunter] We need to keep moving.
Hang on.
This is too easy.
[gasps] Look, there are more markings.
Wait!
-[Hunter shouts]
-Hunter!
[grunts]
[Hunter grunts]
[Omega grunts]
[Hunter panting]
I think we need to find a way
to walk across the ceiling.
My thoughts exactly.
[Hunter breathing heavily]
You're just making this up as you go.
[Phee] It's part of the fun.
[Hunter groans]
[Phee] Loosen up, Bandana.
You're in good hands.
[Hunter] We have almost died
three times already.
[Phee] This reminds me of the time
I tracked down the Belmont diadem--
[Hunter] I don't care.
Ooh. Someone's in a mood.
[sighs]
I'm only interested in getting us
outta here in one piece.
It fits.
[stone grinding]
[grinding stops]
All clear.
The compass.
[grunts] I can't get it.
[Phee] It's served its purpose.
Skara Nal's reclaimed it.
[exhales] Skara Nal has reclaimed it.
So, we have to navigate
this death trap without it?
Good thing you have me.
[Hunter sighs]
[Wrecker] How much further?
[datapad beeps]
[Tech] Uncertain. Something ahead
is interfering with my scans.
-[comm beeps]
-[Echo] Hunter, come in.
[static on comm]
-Comms are down too.
-[bang echoes]
[Wrecker] Did you hear that?
I-It's that thing.
[Echo] It's in your head, Wrecker.
[Hunter] What took you so long?
Phee thinks we're getting close
to the treasure.
[Tech] What type of puzzle is this?
[Phee] Don't overthink it, brown eyes.
Sometimes a door's…
just a door.
There. The Heart of the Mountain.
[rumbling]
[rumbling intensifies]
[Wrecker] Go! Go!
[Wrecker shouts]
-[rumbling continues]
-[beeping]
[metal creaking]
I suspect this is not, in fact,
a treasure vault.
Then what is it?
[Echo] Good question.
[Tech] It just emitted
a massive surge of energy.
Whatever we are standing inside
is highly destructive!
[Wrecker] So what do we do
to shut it down?
[Tech] If removing
the Heart of the Mountain activated it,
perhaps we must return it
to its proper place to deactivate it.
Do you know how much this is worth?
It's what we came for!
Can't you find a separate kill switch
or something?
Our ship's out there.
If that thing destroys it,
we'll be trapped on this planet!
All right. But you owe me.
[creature growling]
[growls]
[growling]
[Phee] You deal with that!
I'll get the stone.
[energy weapon powering up]
[grunts]
[mech creaks]
[Hunter grunting]
-[exhales] Man.
-Come on. We're not out of this yet.
[beeping]
[shrieks]
[creature growling]
Shoot the window!
[growls]
[mech groans, thuds]
Tech, do something!
I am trying, but nothing is working!
[creaks, groans]
Tech, the stone!
[Tech grunts]
[powers down]
[rumbling]
[Hunter] Hang on to something!
[Tech] This puts us at 0 for 2
in treasure hunting,
even with a professional.
We did find the Heart of the Mountain.
The legend was real.
Now that's the right attitude.
At least no one can ever activate
that thing again.
So, what you're saying is,
it's a good thing we came after all?
Sorry about Mel.
This happens all the time.
That's why I keep Mel's memory stored
on my ship's data bank.
I'll have her rebuilt
before we head to Vadnay.
What's on Vadnay?
I have a lead on a certain chalice.
Very ancient.
Really?
[Phee] Legend has it the chalice once
belonged to the Kingdom of Elweys,
lost over a millennia ago.
[Omega] Wow. Kingdom of Elweys.